Version 0.10.0 [not released yet]

    Building xmlwrapp now requires C++11 compiler.

    Add CMake build system (#92).

    New behaviour: xml::node::set_namespace() now sets the namespace for all
    node children when the node hadn't had any namespace before too, instead
    of only doing it when the node namespace is being changed.

    Improve error reporting again by including more details. This changes the
    error messages format compared to the previous versions.

    Fix replacing nodes with libxml 2.10 and later (#87).

Version 0.9.1 [2020-11-01]

    Added return value for xml::init methods setting various boolean flags:
    they now return the previous state of the flag. Also add
    xml::init::change_flag helper to facilitate temporarily changing some
    global flag.

    Remove all dependencies on Boost to simplify using the library.

    Fix compilation with C++17 (and even C++20) compilers.

    Support building Win32 DLLs without relying on auto-import.

Version 0.9.0 [2018-04-08]

    Slight behaviour change: always use UTF-8, not ISO-8859-1, as default
    encoding. This was already the case before, but calling get_encoding()
    (not "set"!) changed the default to ISO-8859-1 as a side effect and this
    is not done any longer.

    Added xml::relaxng class for validating XML documents using RelaxNG.

Version 0.8.1 [2016-12-11]

    Add cpp11.h file missing from 0.8.0 distribution archive.

Version 0.8.0 [2016-11-29]

    New behaviour: xml::document::save_to_{string,file}() now throws exception
    in case of failure by default instead of silently ignoring any errors.

    New behaviour: xpath_context::evaluate() also throws an exception if an
    invalid XPath expression is specified.

    In both cases, "ignore_errors" can be passed as the new "on_error" argument
    to these functions to restore the old behaviour (this is, however, not
    recommended).

    Added xml::node::move_under().
    Added xml::node::set_namespace().
    Added xml::xpath_context class for evaluating XPath expressions.
    Added xml::nodes_view::erase() analogous to node::erase().

Version 0.7.1 [2013-08-28]

    Various compilation and build fixes.

Version 0.7.0 [2013-03-16]

    Changed the xml::node::node(name, content) constructor so that it doesn't
    create a child text node if the content is empty.

    Added xml::node::set_text_content() for setting unescaped textual
    content.

    Added xml::exception class, derived from std::runtime_error. Xmlwrapp
    will throw only this or derived exception, with the exception of
    std::bad_alloc(), which is still thrown when appropriate.

    Added xml::error_handler and related classes for collecting multiple errors
    and warnings. Added appropriate forms of constructors and functions to other
    classes.

    Added xml::node::clear() method.

    Added xml::schema class for XML Schema validation.

    Added xml::document(filename) and xml::document(data, size) constructors
    for convenient document creation without the need to use tree_parser.

Version 0.6.3 [2012-03-23]

    Fixed compilation with Sun Studio compiler; miscellaneous other build
    related fixes.

    Better error reporting when xml::tree_parser input file doesn't exist.

    Added convenience script for getting dependencies on Windows.

Version 0.6.2 [2009-12-20]

    Fixed xml::tree_parser to fail on non-fatal parser errors.

    Added XMLWRAPP_CHECK_VERSION macro.

Version 0.6.1 [2009-06-02]

    Added Visual C++ 200x projects and fixed VC6 project.

    Fixed xml::event_parser::parse_stream() to return false on empty
    input (Michael Grundberg, #2787836).

    Converted test suite to Boost Test.

    Fixed xslt::stylesheet::apply() to detect and report errors.

Version 0.6.0 [2009-02-22]

    Fixed libxmlwrapp to not depend on libxslt if XSLT support
    is enabled (Vadim Zeitlin, #1927398).

    Ported Unix build system to Autotools.

    Split pkg-config file xmlwrapp.pc into xmlwrapp.pc and
    xsltwrapp.pc. Applications that use libxsltwrapp need to be
    updated to use the latter (too).

    Input document to xslt::stylesheet::apply() is now passed as
    const reference instead of non-const one.

    It is no longer necessary to instantiate xml/xslt::init object before
    using the library; this is now done automatically (thread safety is
    preserved) and new code shouldn't do it. Moreover, creating multiple
    xml/xslt::init object instances is now possible and doesn't result in
    multiple initialization/shutdown of the library.

    Configuration methods of xml/xslt::init classes are now static.

    The previously separate manual was merged with Doxygen documentation so
    that all documentation is available in single place. As a consequence,
    PDF version of the manual is no longer provided, use HTML documentation
    included with xmlwrapp source distribution.

    Added xml::node::get_namespace() function.

    Added new constructor to the xml::node class for creating text nodes,
    using xml::node::text helper struct.

    Improved iterators performance (only if Boost.Pool is available).

    Added xml::node::elements() methods for efficient iteration over child
    elements. In most cases, this is a better alternative to find().

Version 0.5.1 [2008-11-16]

    Various compilation fixes.

Version 0.5.0 [2004-03-19]

    Fixed a null pointer dereference problem in
    xml::attributes, Bug ID 20. Thanks goes to John K. Hohm
    for finding this and providing a working patch.

    Added three new constructors to the xml::node class for creating
    CDATA sections, XML comments, and XML processing instructions. This
    is done using three new helper structs, xml::node::cdata,
    xml::node::comment, and xml::node::pi.

    Added new member functions to the xml::node class.
    They are: size and empty.

    Added new member functions to the xml::document class.
    They are: size, push_back, insert, replace, and erase.

    Added the ability to compress XML files saved with the
    xml::document::save_to_file member function (Bug ID 19).

    Major clean ups in the test harness. Test code should be a lot easier
    to write now.

Version 0.4.4 [2003-11-08]

    Small changes so that xmlwrapp can work with libxml2
    version 2.6.0. Thanks goes to Craig Wiesen and Jonathan
    Wakely for finding this. (Bug ID 18).

    Fixed a typo in the manual. Thanks goes to Bill
    Luoma. (Bug ID 16).

Version 0.4.3 [2003-08-20]

    Fixed a build problem on Linux (bug 10). This happens when
    libxslt was installed in /usr. configure.pl could not find
    libxslt because xslt-config does not list /usr/include.

    Updated the TODO list.

Version 0.4.2

    Version 0.4.2 is a maintenance release. A few small bugs were
    fixed and a work around for a bug in Perl 5.8 was added.

    Updated Perl scripts to work around a bug in the Perl 5.8
    regex parser. Thanks goes to Andy Chou.

    Added an encoding patch from Dmitriy Nikitinskiy.

Version 0.4.1

    Version 0.4.1 fixes a few small bugs and also includes some new
    features. It is binary compatible with version 0.4.0.

    Typos in the doxygen documentation were fixed thanks to Jonathan
    Wakely, Stephen Blake and Chris de Hoop.

    Fixed a bug in configure.pl that caused a bad xmlwrapp-config to
    be generated when XSLT was enabled.

    Added support for pkg-config and the xmlwrapp.pc file.

    Added support for libexslt.

    Added the xml::init::remove_whitespace member function to skip
    ignorable whitespace from parsed XML documents. Default value is
    false, so whitespace is included in the node tree by default.

    Added the xml::node::self and xml::node::parent member
    functions. They return @code{xml::node::iterator} or
    xml::node::const_iterator objects.

    Added a new version of the xml::node::insert member function that
    does not require a location iterator, but instead inserts at the
    end of the child list like the xml::node::push_back member
    function does.

    Added a range version of the xml::node::erase member function and
    a version that takes the name of a node to erase. All nodes with
    matching names will be removed from the child list.

    Added two versions of the xml::node::sort member function.  The
    first, will sort child nodes with the given name using one of
    their attributes as a sort key. The other, uses a user supplied
    function object to sort the child nodes.

Version 0.4.0

    Version 0.4.0 is a feature release. xmlwrapp now supports XSLT via
    libxslt. This support is called xsltwrapp and is optional.

    Added the xslt::init and xslt::stylesheet classes to support XSLT.

    Added the xml::init::load_external_subsets member function to make
    libxml load external subsets by default.

Version 0.3.0

    This version contains a lot of new features. Because of this,
    certain API calls have been changed or removed. The following list
    should help you update code that is using xmlwrapp.

    Changed configure.pl to require at least version 2.4.28 of
    libxml2.

    The xml::tree_parser constructors can now throw exceptions if
    there was an error during parsing. This is optional, and is
    controlled by a bool flag passed to the constructors. This also
    means that xml::tree_parser will now prevent libxml2 from sending
    error messages to standard error. The new default behavior is to
    throw an exception.

    Some of the xml::event_parser callback member functions have
    changed. There are also new callbacks so that you can catch CDATA
    sections, processing instructions and XML comments.

    It is now safe to throw exceptions from within an
    xml::event_parser callback.  The exception will not be passed up
    the stack to the caller of one of the parsing member
    functions. Instead, it will stop the parsing and set an error
    condition.

    There is a new xml::document class that allows you to set XML
    document variables such as the encoding and version. The document
    class also supports saving itself to a file, string or a
    std::ostream. It also includes functions for validating a document
    against an internal or external DTD.

    The xml::tree_parser class no longer contains a get_root_node()
    member function.  It has been replaced with get_document() which
    will return a reference to a xml::document object. That object can
    then be used to call get_root_node().

    Another new class, xml::attributes, for getting and setting the
    attributes of a node. This class replaces all the member functions
    of xml::node that dealt with attributes. This class is much better
    than using the old xml::node member functions because it supports
    iterators and functions like find.

    The xml::init class will prevent libxml2 from sending any messages
    to stderr.  This should not be a problem since most classes will
    catch the message and use it in an exception or store it for later
    use.

    xml::init will now set some default libxml2 global
    variables. Indenting of output XML text is turned on. Default
    substitution of entities on turned on.  Validating of all
    documents by default is turned off. There are new member functions
    you can use to change these defaults.

    Compiler flags will no longer contain quotes around directory
    names. This was added for cygwin when people have a space in the
    current working directory path.  It was removed because it was
    causing problems on other platforms.

    There is a new header file, xmlwrapp/xmlwrapp.h, that includes all
    of the other xmlwrapp header files.

    A real working test harness has been added with several tests.

    New member functions for xml::node.

        4 different versions of xml::node::find.

        xml::node::insert.

        xml::node::replace.

        xml::node::erase.

        xml::node::get_attributes.

        xml::node::get_type.

Version 0.2.2

    Version 0.2.2 was a bug fix release.

    Changed include guards so that they don't violate the C++
    standard. Thanks to Greg Chicares.

    Include <cstddef> to get std::size_t and std::ptrdiff_t. Thanks to
    Greg Chicares.

    Fix a major bug where a pimpl was not created in
    xml::tree_parser. Thanks to Greg Chicares.

    Added a call to xmlKeepBlanksDefault(0) in xml::init constructor
    to produce better looking XML. If this causes any problems we will
    have to remove it. This was suggested by Daniel Evison.

    Fixed an issue with command quoting in the configure.pl script.

Version 0.2.1

    Version 0.2.1 was a bug fix release.

    Fixed a bug in the xml::event_parser class that caused parsing to
    continue even when one of the event member functions returned
    false. Thanks to Michael Grabner for finding this one.

    There were a few reports that xmlwrapp could be compiled using
    MSVC on Win32. A project file for MSVC was added so that no one
    would have to do this again. The STLport is needed on the Win32
    platform.

    The get_namespace and set_namespace functions were removed from
    the xml::node class since they were defined but not yet
    implemented.

Version 0.2.0

    Version 0.2.0 of xmlwrapp was the first public release. It
    included the following changes from version 0.1.0.

    First draft of the documentation.

    Added example programs.

    Changed operator<< for xml::node from a template function to a
    normal function that takes a std::ostream.  This allows xmlwrapp
    to compile with GCC < 3.0.

    Replaced calls to std::free with xmlFree in the libxml2 backend
    wrapper.

Version 0.1.0

    Version 0.1.0 was the first packaged version. It was packaged for
    <http://pmade.org/software/clo++/,clo++>.

    It included no documentation or examples, and was not intended for
    use by other developers.
